1. serious/elegant- for luxury and elegance, based on thin serif typefaces, golden or pastel colors
and big high-quality images
2. minimalist/simple - focusses on the essential text content, using small or medium-sized sans-serif
black text, lines, and few images and icons
3. plain/neutral - design that gets out of the way by using neutral and small typefaces, and a very
structured layout. Common in big corporations
4. bold/confident - makes an impact, by featuring big and bold typography, paired with confident use of big 
bright colored blocks
5. calm/peaceful - for products and services that care, transmitted by calming pastel colors, soft serif
headings, and matching images 
6. startup/upbeat - widely used in startups, featuring medium-sized sans-serif typefaces, light-grey text and
backgrounds, and rounded image
7. playful/fun - colorful and round designs, fueled by creative elements like hand-drawn icons or illustrations
animations and fun language

#1 Typography
Rules for typefaces:
Serif - traditional websites
Sans serif - modern websites 
1. Use only good and popular typefaces and play it safe with sans serif fonts (like: inter, open sans, roboto,
montserrat, work sans, lato) or with serif (merriweather, aleo, playfair display, cormorant, cardo, lora)
2. It is ok to use only one typeface, if you want limit to 2 typefaces
3. Choose the right typeface according to your website personality 
4. When choosing font-sizes, limit choices
5. Use a font size beetween 16 px to 32 px for normal text
6. For long text(like a blog post), try a size of 20px or even bigger
7. For headlines, you can go really big(50px+) and bold(600+), depending on personality
8. For any text, don't use a font weight under 400 (regular)

Create a good reading experience:
1. Use less than 75 characters per line
2. For normal-sized text, use a line height between 1.5 and 2. For big text go below 1.5
3. Decrease letter spacing in headlines, if it looks unnatural (this will come from exp)
4. Experiment with all caps for short titles. Make them small and bold and increase letter-spacing
5. Usually don't justify text
6. Don't center long text blocks. Small blocks are fine

Use "TYPE SCALE" to create the best user experience for typography.
Use "Google fonts" to get the best looking free fonts.

#2 colors
1. Make the main color match your website's personality: colors convey meaning.(Super important)
- RED draws a lot of attention, symbolizes power, passion, excitement
- ORANGE is less aggressive, conveys happiness, cheerfulness, and creativity
- YELLOW means joy, brightness, intelligence
- GREEN represents harmony, nature, growth, and health
- BLUE (most often used) is associated with peace, trustworthiness, and professionalism
- PURPLE conveys wealth, wisdom, and magic
- PINK represents romance, care, and affection
- BROWN is associated with nature, durability and comfort
- BLACK symbolizes power, elegance and minimalism, but also grief and sorrow
2. Use a good color tone! Don't choose a random tone or CSS named colors. "OPEN COLOR
WEBSITE" or "TALEWINDCSS" or "TAIL UI COLORS 2" is great to use.
3. You need at least two types of colors in your color palette: a main color and
a grey color(don't have to be gray might be as well a very dark version of another color)
4. With more experience, you can add more colors: accent(secondary) colors (use a tool)
This color cannot be random there must be some correlation between main and accent color
To create accent colors use "COOLERS" or "PALLETTON.COM"
5. For diversity, create lighter and darker "versions"(tints and shades)
If you want to create tints and shades on your own use "TINT & SHADE GENERATOR"
6. Use your main color to draw attention to the most important elements on the page.
Main color can usually be found in logo.
7. Use colors to add interesting accents or make entire components or sections stand out.
8. You can try to use your color strategically in images and illustrations.
Colors and typography:
1. On dark colored background, try to use a tint of the background("lighter version") for text
2. Text should usually not be completely black. Lighten it up if looks heavy and uninviting 
3. Don't make text too light! Use a tool called "COOLORS" to check contrast between text and 
background colors
Contrast ratio needs to be at least 4.5:1 for normal text and 3.1 for large text 

#3 images 
1. Different types of images: product photos, storytelling photos, illustrations, patterns(don't 
overuse them)
2. Use images to support your website's message and story. So onnly use relevant images 
3. Prefer original images. If not possible, use original-looking stock images(not generic ones)

Use images well:
1. Try to show real people to trigger user's emotions
2. If necessary, crop image to fit your message
3. Experiment combining photos, illustrations and patterns

Handle text on images:
1. Darker or brighten image(completely or partially, using a gradient)
2. Position text into neutral image area (but we need to be careful with mobile devices)
3. Put the text in the box 

Some technical details:
1. To account for high res screens, make image dimensions 2x as big as their displayed size
2. Compress images for a lower file size and better performance using "SQUOOSH" (Always remember 
about this!) 
3. When using multiple images side-by-side, make sure thay have the exact same dimensions

#4 Icons 
1. Use a good icon pack, there are tons of free and paid icon packs ("Phosphor Icons" , "Ionicons", "IconS8")
2. Use only one icon pack. Don't mix icons from different icon packs
3. Use SVG icons or icon fonts. Don't use bitmap image format(.jpg and .png)
4. Adjust to website personality! Roundness, weight and filled/outlined depend on typography

When to use icons:
1. Use icons to provide visual assistance to text 
2. Use icons for product feature blocks
3. Use icons associated with actions, and label them (unless no space or icon is 100% clear)
4. Use icons as bullet points 

Use icons well:
1. To keep icons neutral, use the same color as text. To draw more attention, use a different color.
2. Don't confuse your users: icons need to make sense and fit the text or action.
3. Don't make icons larger than what they were designed for. If needed, enclose them in shape

#5 shadows
1. You don't have to use shadows! Only use them if it makes sense for the website personality.
2. Use shadows in small doses: don't add shadows to every element
3. Go light on shadows, don't make them too dark 

Use shadows in the right situation:
1. Use small shadows for smaller elements that should stand out(to draw attention)
2. Use medium-sized shadows for larger areas that should stand out a bit more.
3. Use large shadows for elements that should really float above the interface
4. Experiment with changing shadows on mouse interaction (click and hover)
5. You can also experiment with glows (colored shadows)

#6 border-radius 
1. Use border-radius to increase playfulness and fun of the design, to make it less serious
Less border-radius = serious/elegant 		More border-radius = playful/fun
2. Typefaces have a certain roundness: make sure that border-radius matches that roundness!
3. Use border-radius on buttons, images, around icons, standout sections and other elements

#7 Whitespace
The right amount of whitespace makes designs look clean, modern and polished 
Whitespace communicates how different pieces of information are related to one another 
Whitespace implies invisible relationships between the elements of a layout

1. Use tons of whitespace between sections 
2. Use a lot of whitespace between groups of elements 
3. Use whitespace between elements 
4. Inside groups of elements try to use whitespace instead of lines(borders) 
5. The more elements (or groups of elements) belong together, the closer they should be
6. Start with a lot of whitespace, maybe even too much! Then remove whitespace from there
too much whitespace looks detached, too little looks too crammed
7. Match other design choices. If you have big text or big icons, you need more whitespace
8. Try a hard rule, such as using multiples 16px for all spacing 

#8 Visual Hierarchy
Visual hierarchy is about establishing which elements of a design are the most important ones
Visual hierarchy is about drawing attention to these most important elements
Visual hierarchy is about defining a "path" for users, to guide them through the page
We use a combination of position size colors, spacing, borders and shadows to establish a
meaningful visual hierarchy between elements/components

Rules
1. Position important elements closer to the top of the page, where they get more attention
2. Use images mindfully, as they draw a lot of attention (larger images get more attention)
3. Whitespace creates separation, so use whitespace strategically to emphasize elements

Visual hierarchy for text elements:
1. For text elements, use font size, font weight, color, and whitespace to convey importance 
2. What text elements to emphasize? Titles, sub-titles, links, buttons, data points, icons 
We can also de-emphasize less important text, like labels or secondary/additional information

Visual hierarchy between components:
1. Emphasize an important component using background color, shadow, or border(or multiple)
2. Try emphasizing some component A over the component B by de-emphasizing component B
3. What components to emphasize? Testimonials, call-to-action sections, highlight sections,
preview cards, forms, pricing tables, important rows/columns in tables, etc.

#9 User experience 
UX rules for usability:
1. Don't design complicated layouts. Don't reinvent the wheel. Use patterns that users already know
2. Make your call-to-action the most prominent element, and make the dext descriptive 
3. Use blue text and underlined text only for links!
4. Animations should have a purpose and be fast: between 200 and 500 ms
5. In forms, align labels and fields in a single vertical line, to make the form easier to scan
6. Offer users good feedback for all actions: form errors, form success, etc.
7. Place action buttons where they will create an effect (law of locality)

UX rules for website content:
1. Use a descriptive, keyword-focused headline on your main page. Don't be vague or fancy!
2. Only include relevant information, efficiently! Cut out fluff and make the content 100% clear
3. Use simple words! Avoid technical jargon and "smart-sounding" words 
4. Break up text with sub-headings, images, block quotes, bullet points, etc.

RETURNING TO THE WEBSITE PERSONALITY:
1. Think about how do you want your website to appear to other users? What vibe do you want to transmit?
2. Choose one of the website personalities accordingly 
3. Apply personality traits for each of the design ingredients (that we learned about: typography, colors, etc.)

1. SERIOUS/ELEGANT personality 
